Tag :- [[ReadItLater]] , 
Added :- 2023-03-16

-----
I have wasted my 4 years after 12th, and I want to pursue my graduation, but my age is now 22. What should I do? I feel totally helpless.
I can totally relate to you because I was in this situation few years back.

I passed my 12th in 2016 and went to Kota for NEET preparation.
I didn't get anything in the NEET 2017 but I was confident to crack the exam next time as I was on the margin. Went Kota again for preparation (this was my second drop)
Things were going quite well initially up until november but I started feeling lost from December onwards and fell into depression. I stayed there for 3 more months and came back home in March 2018. I was not feeling well and used to cry every night but was afraid to share this with my parents as they would have freaked out. I took mocks for the entire 2 months and was doing average, sometimes I used to score well. My parents were hopeful and thought I am going to make it this time but I was struggling to even breath. Gave NEET 2018 exam and again missed it by few marks to fetch a government seat in maharashtra.
Everyone advised me to give it a try by doing self study and appear one more time. I was confused. I wanted to get into that career because it is crazily glamourised but I was not ready to read those books again. My father insisted me to prepare again from home. I was clueless so I did hear the noise and did what everybody wanted me to do. Started preparing again for the NEET 2019 exam but just for the sake of it. I did not study at all this year. I was literally at my lowest and nobody knew this. Somehow appeared for the exam and it did not go well ofcourse. Everyone around me specially my parents were shattered by now. It was painful indeed.
I somehow took the courage to take admission in Bsc here in pune (year 2019) I told my parents that I will be studying for NEET side by side. They agreed and new life started. But it was not fulfilling to me. I genuinely at one time decided to give my all this time for NEET. I studied for two months but then again anxiety and panic attacks kicks in. I stopped studying at all even for my university tests. I realized that this is not working for me and if I continue to torcher myself this way I'll be a patient soon rather than a doctor. So decided to leave that forever. Meanwhile found freelancing and I started enjoying it. I was doing something that excited me and was paying me decent as well. I started being happy again. I started blogging and writing reviews for buisnesses that started their social media. We were a bunch of four college kids who were excited to learn something new and getting some money to have our favourite food 🤣 we did this for around one year.
Then covid happened when I was in second year. I honestly enjoyed that time. No regrets. I kept working as a freelancer and brushed up my skills in the journey ❤️I was earning around 40k-50k a month.
Covid continued in 2021 as well while I completed second year and started third year. Half of third year went online.
I am 22 right now and done with the degree. See, it's not actually about age or degree but actually to move forward. Everyone make mistakes in their careers. Some people get early setbacks while some later in the age. It's okay as long as you know how to come out of that setback and start again..

Like I did my bachelor's in science and I'm not interested to pursue it further anymore. I am doing something else and will probably do something else moving forward.

“Jahan ho wahi se shuru karo" you will find your way. It does not matter when you are going to complete your degree or what. Acquire skills, Learn things that interest you. You don't have to study alot for your graduation. So you can manage your graduation with something else as well. You will have plenty of time to figure out other things.

The thing is just accept your past self and don't be ashamed of that. You can always start new after that.

I wish you the best and hope it helped you in some way ❤️